
Mutual Funds : 
        A mutual fund is a company that pools money from many investors and invests the money in securities 
            such as stocks, bonds, and short-term debt as per the objectives of schemes. 
        Managed by the Mutual Fund Manager.

    Types of MF scheme -
        By Structure - 
            Open-Ended - Investor can enter any time
            Close-Ended - Investor only enter and leave at scheme specified time
            Interval - open every 2 days for 1 months to get out/in existing investors, and gets locked for 2 months.
        
        
        By Nature
            Index - highest risk
            
            Equity - Equity funds invests in shares of companies and related securities like derivatives[i.e. futures, options] which trade in the stock market.
                        Equity is more volatile asset class compared to debt.
                        High risk appetites with longer investment tenures for equity funds investments.
                        LTCG 10% for capital gain on remaining value after 1 lac
                        STCG 15% on capital gain
                    Large cap - min 80% money is invested in top 100 companies(according to their market capitalization)
                    Mid cap - min 65% money is invested in top 101-250 companies(according to their market capitalization)
                    Small cap - min 865% money is invested below top 250 companies(according to their market capitalization)
                    Multi cap
                    Dividend yield
                    value
                    Contra
                    Thematic/Sectoral
                    ELSS
                    Focused
            
            Debt - Debt funds invests in debt and money market instruments[ie. commercial papers (CPs), certificates of
                        deposits(CDs), Treasury bills(T-Bills), non convertible debentures(NCDs), Government Bonds or G-Secs etc.]
                        LTCG use Indexation for lower the tax
                        STCG up-till 3 years
                Liquid debt funds/Money Market Schemes - most safe, low duration(Suitable for putting money aside for emergencies)
            
            Balance/Hybrid - mix of debt, equity, gold, etc. asset class
            
            Tax Saving - 
                ELSS(Equity Linked Savings Scheme) - 3 years lock-in period
                Tax Saving FD - 5 years lock-in period
                PPF(Public Provident Fund) - 15 year maturity period
                ULIP



ETF (Exchange treaded fund) - MF is traded on stock exchange



Portfolio : 
    The combined holdings of the particular mutual fund in all asset classes is known as portfolio.
    
NAV(Net Asset Value):
    Market value of one unit entire mf in portfolio

NFO(New Fund Offer): 
    same as IPO but for MF

Exit Load:
    charged if exited in lock in period

Expense Ratio:
    should be max 2.5%(Equity Oriented) or 2.25%(Debt Oriented)

Fact Sheet:
    available monthly on respective the companies website

Indexation:(For Debt Oriented MF)
    to save the LTCG tax on redemption with the use increasing the cost of purchase according to cost inflation index(CII)
    for Indexation, you must be locked in for 3 financial years

SIP(systematic investment plan): [bank > equity mutual fund]
    investors to invest in mutual funds a fixed amount at regular intervals

STP(Systematic Transfer Plan): [debt mutual fund > equity mutual fund]
    STP allows investors to transfer investments between mutual funds
    frequency -> weekly, fortnightly, Monthly, Quarterly

SWP(Systematic Withdrawal Plan): 
    investors to withdraw a fixed amount at regular intervals